---
favorite: false
id: 64
title: "Migrating Away From Google Services"
---

Nothing specifically happened to make me want to migrate away from Google
services. It's not like there was a last straw-type of situation, I just decided
it was time. Google's business does not align with my personal preferences any
longer and I would prefer to pick services that do.

## Don't Be Evil

Google famously had this internal mantra of "Don't Be Evil" that I used to think
was so cool. Imagine a tech company that was self-aware enough to know that it
_could_ be evil but wasn't because it reminded itself not to do that. That's
cool!

But I don't think that's the reality of today. Google might not be evil in the
way a demon might be evil but they sure like to do things that I dislike!

## I Am Not a Product

The thing that makes me the most interested in migrating away from Google
services is that I consider myself a user not a product. Many have said that if
you don't pay for something, then you are the product and Google search is a
pretty good example of this.

When I search for something on Google I don't pay for that search. Instead
Google subsidizes that search by allowing advertisers to pay for placement on
the results page. This is how Google makes the vast majority of their money. In
this situation I am the product - my attention and clicks on ads are what fuel
the search engine.

And I was fine with this arrangement for many years. This same situation exists
for Gmail - I don't pay for Gmail thus I am the product. They don't directly
make money off me in this way but rather they mine data to make their ads more
relevant and it all feeds back into this cycle where my best interests play
almost no role.

## Will Pay for Software

At other times in my life I was pretty uninterested in paying money for
software, especially if there was a free alternative. As I've gotten older and
my financial situation has changed so has this attitude. I've actually come full
circle and now _prefer_ to pay for software! With some caveats of course.

I've also been gainfully employed as a person who makes software and so my views
on what and to whom I should be paying money when I use software have changed
too. When I see Twitter trying to get people to pay $8 for a blue check mark I
want nothing to do with it. But when I see Tapbots trying to get people to pay
for their excellent Mastodon client called Ivory then I'm like sign me up!

## Turns Out Privacy Has Value

Given that I don't want to be a product and that I'm willing to pay for software
then it follows that I believe my privacy has value! Value that I'm willing to
spend real dollars on.

I'd consider paying Google money to respect my privacy but that's not their
business model.

## Finding Alternative to Google Services

So this all leads me back to a desire to migrate away from Google services. In
my estimation the main things to migrate away from are:

* Chrome
* Google Search
* Gmail

I've already set Safari as my default web browser on my laptops so that first
one isn't too hard. I will miss some of the features I've come to rely on with
Chrome but I bet I'll adapt pretty quickly.

For Google Search there are def alternatives that would be easy to migrate to -
DuckDuckGo seems like an easy one to pick. I'm also interested to try out a paid
search engine but that'll take some experimentation.

Last is Gmail and I might have already overcome this pretty quickly. I asked my
pal [Erik][] about this and he recommended Fastmail. I've already set up an account
and have migrated my 15+ years of email over so...maybe this is mostly done?

I still have to go through the process of updating friends and family about the
new address and then update the LOTS of accounts that are tied to my old Gmail
address but that's all something I can do over time.

Which is sort of a theme here - migrating to something else with an eye towards
eventually deleting my Google account but not right away. Let's see how this
goes!

[Erik]: https://hachyderm.io/@erikk
