---
favorite: false
number: 30
title: Marston on Sinatra's Halt; Jones on Sinatra vs. Rails; Bernhardt on Learning Vim
---

Myron Marston did a quick write up on [why `halt` is so awesome in
Sinatra][halt]. I've actually used it before, but its been a while, so this was
a good reminder. Also, the way he demonstrated it with the different status
codes depending on the error that happened was pretty sweet.

---

Darren Jones writing for Ruby Source [explores][best] the differences and
similarities of Sinatra and Rails by asking around and writing up what people
say. Having used both and experienced the pain of choosing Sinatra and
regretting it later when things got more complex, many of the comments rang
true. My main take away from this post and my own experience is that Sinatra can
be a great tool to build an API or do a quick prototype, but as the scope and
complexity increase you'll quickly want some of the niceties of Rails.

---

Watched [Destroy All Software 30: Some Vim Tips][vim-tips] and really enjoyed
it. Gary Bernhardt goes through some things that he thinks might help someone
learn Vim and some strategies for pushing yourself to get better.  One of his
first pieces of advice is to look at the keyboard and find keys where you can't
name what they do in Vim and then find out. Go from the keys themselves to
shifted keys to controlled keys.

He also talks about trying to train yourself to recognize when you are repeating
yourself and practice pausing to think of a better way. I'm definitely guilty of
repeating myself, I usually do press "j" over and over to move down a page, so I
need to work on that.

[halt]: http://myronmars.to/n/dev-blog/2012/01/why-sinatras-halt-is-awesome
[best]: https://www.sitepoint.com/rails-or-sinatra-the-best-of-both-worlds/
[vim_tips]: https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/screencasts/catalog/some-vim-tips
