---
layout: resume
title: Resume
---
# Resume

## Professional Objective

My progress through Engineering levels has seen me do many things over the years
but a constant has been solving problems and building things. This is what got
me into programming computers and it's what keeps me there. I want to work for a
company where I will have interesting problems to solve and can build cool
things for users.

## Development Perspective

The high value I place on having empathy for users is what I think makes me
really good at developing software. It's important to look at what you're
working on from their perspective and take their needs seriously.

Bringing clarity to projects is as much about what one leaves out as what one
includes. Sure, it's about great copy and usable interfaces, but it's also about
saying no. I care about keeping the things I work on focused on what's really
important.

Being a part of the technology industry means accepting the responsibility of
staying current and continuously learning. This is challenging but it's vital to
ensure you arrive at the right technical decision. I often lean on my experience
to know when to make the "boring" choice.

## Employment History

Shopify, _remote_ (2025-present)

* __Senior Engineer:__ (2025-present) Used AI tools to augment the army of
  engineers with a focus on generating tests at scale.

Artsy, _remote_ (2017-2025)

* __Staff Engineer:__ (2022-2025) Focused on improving Engineering-wide
  skills with Ruby on Rails. Managed and worked on an effort to migrate from
  Mongo to Postgres. Also shipped our first iOS Widget!

* __Senior Engineer 2:__ (2019-2022) Continued in Tech Lead roles by helping
  start and lead teams of all sizes across the organization. Launched an
  engineering podcast along with many open source contributions.

* __Senior Engineer 1:__ (2017-2019) Built a service to improve Gallery data
  coverage by layering data sources. Improved the listings tool and learned the
  business well enough to move to a Tech Lead role.

Hashrocket, _remote_ (2016-2017)

* __Senior Developer:__ Focused on iOS development to help clients take their
  applications native. Used strong communication and documentation skills to
  keep teams on the same page and transition project over to clients.

Grid Connect, _Naperville, Illinois_ (2014-2016)

* __Lead Developer:__ Built a team of software developers while improving our
  product and launching new ones. Worked with embedded developers to create IoT
  products in Apple's HomeKit ecosystem. Also helped clients build out custom
  IoT infrastructure for their own products.

Hashrocket, _Chicago, Illinois_ (2011-2014)

* __Senior Developer:__ Started as an apprentice and worked up to leading many
  projects, managing hiring process and helping to host community events.
  Focusing on Rails development, used agile practices, strong TDD and pair
  programming to deliver first-class web applications for our clients.

Allured Business Media, _Carol Stream, Illinois_ (2007-2011)

* __Web Developer:__ Responsible for virtually all aspects of the company's many
  websites with lots of input on strategy. Managed redesigns for each site and
  did the programming for those projects.

## Education

* Bachelor of Science in Business Management, _National Louis University_ (2005)

## Open Source Projects

I work on a number of projects for myself and the wider development community.
Probably my most well known project is a list of Ruby conferences called
[RubyConferences.org][rc]. Averaging around 1,500 pageviews a month, the site
helps people find events both future and past.

My personal Rails project is called [Monolithium][] and it's where I build
things for myself. It's got a Post Bin and an artwork viewer. I made a list of
the books I've read. Random stuff but I've enjoyed tinkering with it over the
years.

Another thing I made is a CLI tool called [pear][] that helps sign commits when
pair programming so that everybody gets credit. It's a small thing but I like
using it and I learned a lot by making it.

[rc]: http://rubyconferences.org
[Monolithium]: https://github.com/jonallured/monolithium
[pear]: https://github.com/jonallured/pear
